KEP-2: Local Execution Mode Proposal (#34)
kubeflow/sdk: docs/proposals/2-trainer-local-execution/README.md

### Goals
- Allow users to run training jobs on their local machines using container runtimes or subprocess.
- Rework current Kubeflow Trainer SDK to implement Execution Backends with Kubernetes Backend as default.
- Implement Local Execution/Training Backends that integrates seamlessly with the Kubeflow SDK, supporting both single-node and multi-node training processes.
- Provide an implementation that supports PyTorch, with the potential to extend to other ML frameworks or runtimes.
- Ensure compatibility with existing Kubeflow Trainer SDK features and user interfaces.

### Non-Goals
- Full support for distributed training in the first phase of implementation.
- Support for all ML frameworks or runtime environments in the initial proof-of-concept.
- Major changes to the Kubeflow Trainer SDK architecture.

## Proposal

The local execution mode will allow users to run training jobs in container runtime environment on their local machines, mimicking the larger Kubeflow setup but without requiring Kubernetes. 

![Architecture Diagram](high-level-arch.svg)

### User Stories (Optional)

#### Story 1

> As an ML engineer, I want to run my model locally using Podman/Docker containers so that I can test my training job without incurring the costs of running a Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an AI Practitioner, I want to run my model locally using Podman/Docker containers so that I can test my training job without incurring the costs of running a Kubernetes cluster.
```

#### Story 2

> As an ML engineer, I want to initialize datasets and models within Podman/Docker containers, so that I can streamline my local training environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an AI Practitioner, I want to initialize datasets and models within Podman/Docker containers, so that I can streamline my local training environment.
```

### Notes/Constraints/Caveats

> - The local execution mode will initially support Subprocess, Podman, Docker and Apple Container.

Reviewer: Do we plan to initially support Apple Container though? And what does initially mean? cc @andreyvelich

- The subprocess implementation will be restricted to single node.
- The local execution mode will support only pytorch runtime initially.
- Resource limitations on memory, cpu and gpu is not fully supported locally and might not be supported if the training backend doesn't expose apis to support it.

### Risks and Mitigations
- **Risk**: Compatibility issues with non-Docker container runtimes.
  - **Mitigation**: Initially restrict support to Podman/Docker and evaluate alternatives for future phases.
- **Risk**: Potential conflicts between local and Kubernetes execution modes.
  - **Mitigation**: Ensure that the local execution/training backends are implemented with the exact same interface as the kubernetes backend to enable users to switch between both seamlessly.

## Design Details

> The local execution mode will be implemented using a new `LocalProcessBackend`, `PodmanBackend`, `DockerBackend` which will allow users to execute training jobs using containers. The client will utilize container runtime capabilities to create isolated environments, including volumes and networks, to manage the training lifecycle. It will also allow for easy dataset and model initialization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The local execution mode will be implemented using a new `LocalProcessBackend`, `PodmanBackend`, `DockerBackend` which will allow users to execute training jobs using containers and virtual environment isolation. The client will utilize container runtime capabilities to create isolated environments, including volumes and networks, to manage the training lifecycle. It will also allow for easy dataset and model initialization.
```

> - Different training backends will need to implement the same interface from the `TrainingBackend` abstract class so `TrainerClient` can initialize and load the backend.

Author: This is very specific to the trainer not generic. The `Runner` or `RunnerBackend` makes sense in pipelines case but for trainer, I believe it makes more sense to use `TrainingBackend`

> - Different training backends will need to implement the same interface from the `TrainingBackend` abstract class so `TrainerClient` can initialize and load the backend.

Reviewer 2: Once we migrate other type of Jobs like OptimizeJob for hyperparameter tuning, we might want to introduce various backends for them as well, right ? I am trying to find a name that works for all type of Jobs.

Alternatively, we can call it ExecutionBackend.

> - Different training backends will need to implement the same interface from the `TrainingBackend` abstract class so `TrainerClient` can initialize and load the backend.

Reviewer: ExecutionBackend makes sense to me
